in this video I'm going to explain to
you why hashtags are a thing of the past
and what's going to be replacing them if
you're someone who's been trying to grow
on Instagram over the past few years
you've most likely run into the
frustration that is Instagram hashtags
in 2015 and 2016 they were a really
reliable way to grow on Instagram and
most Instagram growth coaches talked
about them in some capacity I myself
even used to sell an Instagram course
that was called help with hashtags that
was all about helping you find your most
ideal list of hashtags I was a big fan
of them I sold products relating to
hashtags but with that being said I have
to be honest and say that they're just
not what they used to be and I'm sure if
you use hashtags regularly and
especially if you've been using them for
the past few years you recognize that
they just don't provide the same
benefits that they used to on an
Instagram feed post you're allowed to
use up to 30 hashtag General best
practices used to recommend using 28 to
30 and that was based off of data that
showed that using 21 or more hashtags
was proven to continue to increase your
reach basically the more you used the
the better your reach and engagement
would do up until about the 21 hashtag
Mark and then it would kind of plateau
off but some recent data has come out
suggesting that the post that get the
most engagement and the most reach have
one or zero hashtag and in fact for
accounts with 50 000 or more followers
the more hashtags you use Studies have
shown the less views you're going to get
and I know you might be thinking Brock I
don't have 50 000 followers that doesn't
pertain to me and I hear you a study was
recently done by social media today that
showed that for accounts between five
thousand and ten thousand followers
engagement also decreases the more
hashtags you use the decrease in
engagement just wasn't as drastic or
pronounced as it was with accounts that
have more than fifty thousand followers
so does this mean that hashtags are dead
and you should stop using them all
together no hashtags can still be
beneficial hashtags can still help
people find you there are plenty of
customers plenty of followers of mine
who tell me that they find me because of
hashtags there are plenty of people who
get business because of the hashtags
that they use if you're someone who is
really reliant on a physical location
let's say you need customers or
followers in your local area or in your
local market well then hashtags for you
are going to be especially beneficial to
really hone in where your content should
be targeted to and what kinds of people
from what kinds of areas should see your
content so I'm not saying hashtags are
dead I'm not saying you should abandon
them but what I do believe is that you
should stop stressing about hashtags my
help with hashtags course is not
available anymore but if it was I would
tell you not to buy it because stressing
about them buying courses relating to
hashtag buying apps relating to hashtags
spending money on Experts who are going
to tell you what the best hashtags are
for you is in my opinion a waste of time
and a waste of money instead I think
that your time and energy and effort and
your money should be spent in other
places areas like improving your content
creating more content engaging with your
audience more creating more trust and
more conversations and more
relationships with your audience
improving things outside of Instagram
like your sales funnel or pouring money
into paid advertising or into email
marketing or things like that I think
all of that should take precedence over
finding the ideal list of hashtags for
Instagram and also if you've been
listening to me say this and you're like
Brock you're so wrong because my
hashtags are great my hashtags are
always providing me with reach and
Impressions I'm getting great views and
engagement from using hashtags that's
great keep doing that as I always say
everything that I teach is a general
best practice it's a recommendation but
if you find something that works for you
by all means flip me the bird and keep
doing what works for you knock your
socks off I would never tell you to stop
doing something that works for you if
it's effective test it out try it out
and keep doing it if it's working for
you but with that being said I have to
report to you the data and the data
suggests that hashtags are less
effective now in 2023 than they were in
the past and so what that tells us is
that Instagram is evolving the
algorithms are in improving and
something is replacing hashtag I think
at this point in the video it'd be wise
to stop and explain why are hashtags
existing in the first place like why did
Instagram come out with hashtags
hashtags were a way to categorize our
content hashtags were a way to directly
tell the algorithm here's what my
content is about you see 10 years ago
the algorithms were a lot less advanced
than they are now the artificial
intelligence was Far inferior compared
to where it's at now and so they had to
rely on us and they being Instagram and
really all these social networks they
had to rely on us to use hashtags to
tell them here's what my content is
about here's the topic of my post here's
whom my posts should be shown to but now
as the algorithm has evolved add these
social networks have grown and they've
made a lot more money and they've poured
a lot more money into this artificial
intelligence these things can tell what
our posts are about without us having to
tell them they can scan our photos they
can watch our video so to speak they can
listen to our trans scripts they can
watch our stories and our reels and our
tick tocks even and determine this is
what the content is about this is the
kind of person who would be interested
in it this is the topic of the content
this is the type of person in the
different geographic regions who should
be shown our content I mean how often do
you open up Instagram or Tick Tock and
you're shown a video that's in your
local area right now we're traveling and
we're here in Park City and I remember
one of the very first videos that I saw
when I opened my phone after arriving
here in Park City was a video of someone
skiing in Park City I had never seen a
video of someone skiing in Park City in
the past I've seen skiing videos but I'd
never seen a video that was that
specific to my location I remember even
a few months ago my wife and I were on
our honeymoon in Fiji and the first
video I saw when we got to Fiji was a
vlogger talking about their travel in
Fiji these algorithms are really smart
they know what kind of content we want
they know what kind of content our
followers would like to see and they
know what kind of content is going to
keep people on the platform that's their
job and so they're constantly learning
and evolving to be able to show people
their content better without relying on
us to add 30 hashtags and so that's why
hashtags have been replaced that's why
hashtags have been phased out Instagram
has even been rumored to be removing
hashtags altogether do anything that's
gonna happen anytime soon no I don't
think so that's not my bet I bet it's
gonna be at least a few more years if
they ever even do replace hashtags but
with that being said there is a new and
improved version of hashtags and it's
something that's been around and been a
big Topic in marketing and online
entrepreneurship for a while and that's
seo seo stands for search engine
optimization and basically it's the idea
that you can optimize also known as
improve your content your website your
video your post in order to show up
better in search engine results think
Google and I know when you hear a search
engine you think Google and that's
definitely true improving your SEO on
your website can definitely improve your
ability to rank higher up on the Google
page but did you know that now over 50
percent of gen Z which is myself
included people under the age of I think
27 people who were born prior to the
year 2000 but after I think the year
1985 so gen Z myself over 50 of the
people in my generation are using
Instagram and Tick Tock to search for
things rather than Google that means
rather than going to google.com and
typing in whatever they're looking for
they go to Instagram or they go to tick
tock so improving your SEO on Instagram
and on Tick Tock will help you reach
more people on those platforms and it
will also help you reach more people on
Google because oftentimes when you're
searching for things on Google you can
find results on Instagram and Tick Tock
as well so right now I'm going to share
with you eight different ways you can
improve your SEO on Instagram and on
Tick Tock and all eight of these
strategies to improve your SEO evolve
around understanding The Words that your
ideal follower is searching for I want
you to pause the video right now and
think about who is my ideal follower who
is my ideal customer who do I want to
attract to my page I want you to get
crystal clear with who that person is I
know you want to attract millions of
people but when you try to attract
everyone you end up attracting no one
effectively so I want you to get Crystal
Clear what are their demographics what's
their age range what's their ethnicity
what's their marital status what's their
children say they have kids do they have
dogs what are their Hobbies their
passions their interests what level of
knowledge are they at what level of
education do they have get really
specific with who this ideal follower is
and then we need to start to think about
what kind of words are they searching
for what kind of terms are they using I
know you might love to call yourself the
marketing unicorn ninja but most likely
your ideal follower isn't searching for
a marketing unicorn ninja there they're
most likely looking for a marketing
expert who can help them grow their Etsy
Shop organically that's something that's
searchable marketing unicorn ninja isn't
searchable so I want you to think about
what kind of words what kind of terms
what phrases does my ideal follower
already know and what are they already
searching for what kind of terms are
they putting into the search bar and if
you don't know if you're scratching your
head right now and you're super confused
Brock I have no idea what they would be
searching for I want to recommend two
websites number one is Google as you
type your keywords into Google as you
type suggested words or words that you
think your followers your ideal
followers would be searching for Google
will answer or they'll give you little
recommendations of what the rest of that
query might be they'll give you
recommendations for how you might finish
that sentence those recommendations are
oftentimes based on what people are
already searching for at a high rate so
that's a good clue for you as to what
people are looking up but another
website that can do this really easily
for you is answer the public.com you'll
find a link for it down in the show
notes and they're not a sponsor of this
video by any means but basically you go
to answerthepublic.com
a topic a subject basically a word that
would describe maybe your Instagram
account or your profession maybe
whatever it is that you're selling maybe
you're going to type your Niche into
answerthepublic.com and it will give you
hundreds of the top searched words and
phrases relating to that topic it's such
a cool website I do believe they limit
how many searches you're able to make
per day of course you could update to
the paid version but usually within just
a few searches you're going to get your
wheels turning about what kind of words
and phrases your ideal audience is not
just using but is already looking up and
once you start to look through answer
the public and Google write notes keep a
list of the different words and keywords
and phrases that your audience is
searching for and then apply those words
phrases and keywords to the following
eight areas to improve your SEO first
start using these words and phrases in
your spoken audio these algorithms can
listen to what you're saying they are
transcribing what you are saying as you
post video or as you speak whatever you
are speaking so anything that's spoken
in your videos whether that's your
stories your reels your tick tocks or
even your YouTube videos it's being
listened to by these algorithms and so
those words that you're using they
matter and using specific keywords
specific words or phrases that your
audience is already using or already
searching for is going to help these
algorithms determine what is your
content what is your topic and whom
should your posts be shown to number two
your text on screen just like you've
been seeing throughout this video
there's been text popping up on the
screen and if you watch videos on Tick
Tock or on Instagram reels you most
likely are very used to this titles
popping up closed captions added to the
screen any text that's on the screen or
any text that's in your content in
general that can be scanned and read
very easily by these algorithms by these
artificial intelligence and that will
improve your SEO number three in your
captions or descriptions below your
videos the words you are using matter
again again let's go back to that
example from the past rather than using
the marketing unicorn ninja let's use
the female marketing expert who can help
you organically grow your Etsy page when
you're writing out your captions or your
descriptions below the video start to
incorporate those keywords and phrases
that your audience is already searching
for when I say incorporate I don't want
you to just type out a list of keywords
like you would with a list of hashtag I
want you to find ways to organically use
these words in sentences I want you to
find ways to speak these words
organically in your videos I don't want
you to get to the end of your reel and
then say marketing organic
Etsy growth
advertising I want you to organically
use these words and sprinkle them into
your scripts your captions and number
four into your comments not just the
comments that you are leaving in
response to other people but in the
comments that you are leaving on other
people's account these algorithms are
trapping everything you do and so if
you're constantly leaving comments that
are relating to snowboarding well then
your content is more likely to be shown
to people who are interested in
snowboarding the fifth place where you
should be strategic with these keywords
and phrases is in your bio the bio on
Instagram is constantly being improved
in terms of its searchability and so we
should be constantly improving our
search engine optimization of our bio
specifically on Instagram but also on
tick tock on YouTube and on every other
social media platform the more keywords
and phrases that you can put into your
bio the better and that will help people
not only find you on these different
platforms it will also help people find
you when they're looking things up on
Google number six in your hashtags
themselves again like I said at the
beginning of this video I'm not saying
to abandon hashtags and forget about
them all together I'm not saying that
they're completely dead you can use
hashtag strategically to improve your
SEO using those keywords and phrases
that we talked about earlier in your
hashtags has always been the best
practice for hashtags not using the most
popular hashtags but using hashtags that
your ideal audience is already looking
up and searching for the seventh area to
improve your SEO on Instagram is in your
title and I know you might be thinking
Brock I don't have a title on Instagram
there's a title on this YouTube video
but I don't have a title and that's
where I'm gonna say you're wrong or
actually I'm gonna say that that's where
I'm going to disagree with you because
on Instagram you do have a title it's
just not called your title when you look
at your Instagram profile you're gonna
see two names in bold the name at the
top is your username then there's going
to be another name in bold that's right
below your profile picture on Instagram
it's called your Instagram name again
distinction username versus Instagram
name that Instagram name however of
course is where most people are just
going to type their name but here's the
problem that line is 100 searchable
anything that people type into the
Instagram search bar can be used to find
you if you have those words in your
Instagram title also known as your
Instagram name so here's my challenge
for you go into your Instagram profile
press the edit bio button and rather
than just having your name typed on that
Instagram name line I want you to add a
hyphen after your name and then add a
title add some searchable keywords that
relate to your account that will allow
people to find you again not The Insider
lingo not fit Fab funky Diva not
marketing ninja but the actual
searchable keyword that relate to you
your title for yourself or your business
or your account put those on your
Instagram name and from now on you'll
refer to that as your insta Instagram
title and eighth last but not least of
course your username your username is
probably the most searchable thing on
any social media so make sure that your
username is either your name your
business name or it includes some sort
of keyword that is relating to your
industry your Niche or whatever it is
you do make sure that the words that
you're including are things that people
would be looking up in order to find you
thank you so much for watching today if
you learned something don't forget to
hit that subscribe button and hit the
Thumbs Up Button as well let me know in
the comments of what video topic you
would like me to do for my next video
and as always happy networking